Installing Chunky
=================

Before installing Chunky you will need Java 8 update 40 or later.
[You can download Java here.](http://java.com)

On Ubuntu, some other Linux distributions, and with Java 11 or greater you may have to install a JavaFX
library to be able to run Chunky. On Ubuntu 16.04, just have to install the
package `openjfx` (ie apt-get install openjfx).

There are several different ways to install Chunky. If you are using Windows
then the [Windows Installer](@EXE_DL_LINK@) is probably the best option.
There is also a handy [Mac Bundle](@DMG_DL_LINK@) for Mac users.
However to use Chunky 2.X you need to use the ChunkyLauncher.jar.

For other platforms you can [download the Chunky Launcher
(ChunkyLauncher.jar)](http://chunkyupdate.llbit.se/ChunkyLauncher.jar). The
launcher is a Java application that downloads and updates Chunky.  You can
start the launcher by double-clicking the downloaded Jar file, or typing this
command in a terminal/command prompt:

    java -jar ChunkyLauncher.jar

On later versions of OpenJDK Java, you might need to run it with `--module-path` and `--add-modules` like below:

    java --module-path /usr/lib/jvm/java-11-openjdk/lib/ --add-modules javafx.controls,javafx.fxml -jar ChunkyLauncher.jar

You should put these arguments into the launcher too.

The first time you start Chunky or the Chunky Launcher, you will be asked to
pick a settings directory for Chunky:

![First-Time Setup dialog](first-time-setup.png)

The recommended directory is usually the best option. Click "Use Selected
Directory" to continue.

Next, you will see the Chunky Launcher. Even if you did not download the
standalone launcher, this window will pop up:

![Chunky Launcher main window](launcher.png)

If you downloaded only the launcher then you will have to update Chunky,
otherwise can click "Launch" to start Chunky.

Updating Chunky
---------------

In the launcher, hitting the "Check for Update" button will make the launcher
check for an update to Chunky online. This must be done the first time you
start Chunky if you only downloaded the launcher.

If an update to Chunky was is available you will soon see the "Update
Available!" window:

![Update Available! window](update-available.png)

Click the "Update to New Version" button to start downloading the required
files. When the download process has completed you can close the "Update
Available!" by clicking "Close" and then, in the main launcher window, click
"Launch" to start Chunky.
